.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
.\" that both the copyright notice appear in all copies and that both
.\" the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
.\" supporting documentation, and that the name of Intel Corporation
.\" not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
.\" of the software without specific, written prior permission.
.\"
.\" COMPANY AND/OR INTEL DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL COMPANY NOR INTEL BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
.\" RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,
.\" ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH SLIP 7 "Network Drivers"
.SH NAME
SLIP \- Serial Link Internet Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/socket.h>
#include <sys/stream.h>
#include <net/if.h>
#include <sys/slip.h>

s = open ("/dev/slip", O_RDWR);
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBSLIP\fP is a multiplexing STREAMS driver that implements the
packet framing protocol specified in RFC1055.
.PP
The \fBSLIP\fP driver is usually linked below the \fIip\fP driver and above the
\fIasy\fP (serial) driver.
The \fIslattach\fP command constructs the required \fIip\fP to \fBSLIP\fP to
\fIasy\fP STREAMS stack so that serial lines can be used as a network interfaces.
.PP
Multiple serial devices can be linked below the \fBSLIP\fP driver.
The maximum number of serial devices the \fBSLIP\fP driver can have is
controlled by the configuration parameter \fBSLIP_NUM\fP in the file
\fI/etc/conf/pack.d/slip/space.c\fP.
Note that the slip hangup daemon (\fIslhangupd\fP), if used, takes one entry
of \fBSLIP's\fP driver data structure, and should be considered before setting
\fBSLIP_NUM\fP.
.PP
\fII_STR ioctl commands:\fP
.PP
The I_STR ioctl commands are provided to add the capability of passing
M_HANGUP signal received by the \fBSLIP\fP driver to the process that builds the
SLIP protocol stack.
This is necessary because the TCP/IP protocol stack may disregard M_HANGUP
messages.
.PP
The I_STR ioctl commands codes below are defined in <\fIsys/slip.h\fP>.
.TP 20
.B REG_SLHUP
A process that sends this ioctl will be notified of M_HANGUP messages sent
by any of the lower ttys associated with the \fBSLIP\fP driver.
The notification is done by sending an M_DATA messages containing the process
ID of the program that linked the effected tty to the \fBSLIP\fP driver.
This ioctl is generally sent by SLIP hangup daemon \fIslhangupd\fP.
Only one process can be registered to receive M_HANGUP notifications at any
one time.
.TP 20
.B UNREG_SLHUP
This ioctl unregisters a process from receiving M_HANGUP notifications.
Since only one process can be registered to receive M_HANGUP notifications,
it is important that a process unregister before it exits.
.SH SEE ALSO
slattach(1M), sldetach(1M), slhangupd(1M), asy(7), ip(7)
.SH FILES
/dev/slip
.SH AUTHOR
Sudji Husodo
