.TH slip 1 "TCP/IP"
.SH NAME
slip, mkslipuser, dslipuser \- dialup SLIP utilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/slip\fP
\fB/usr/sbin/mkslipuser\fP [ #_of_logins host_address ]
\fB/usr/sbin/dslipuser\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBslip\fP program sets up a SLIP protocol over a dialup line.
The SLIP protocol is obtained by logging into a host and executing
the \fBslip\fP program.
Because \fBslip\fP must execute \fIslattach\fP and \fIifconfig\fP, it must run
setuid to root.
.PP
Slip uses two files to control access; a host table (\fI/etc/slip.hosts\fP)
that maps login IDs to internet addresses, and a user file
(\fI/etc/slip.user\fP) that keeps track of users logged in over \fBslip\fP.
The host table file must be created by hand and has the following format:
.PP
.nf
.CW
# Lines starting with "#" are ignored.
# The first field is the IP address to be assigned the remote host that
# is logging in. The second field is the login ID which is used to find
# the appropriate IP address.
#
# <IP address> <login ID>
192.9.2.1 rkl
192.9.2.2 sjg
.fi
.fP
.PP
If the file \fI/var/slip/slip.log\fP exists, \fBslip\fP will append log entries
that show when users invoked \fBslip\fP and when they disconnected.
.PP
The \fBmkslipuser\fP program is used to create a blank user file.
You may want to envoke \fBmkslipuser\fP from the \fI/etc/init.d/inetinit\fP
rc file to insure a sane system after reboot.
\fBMkslipuser\fP uses information supplied either on the command line or from
the configuration file \fI/etc/slip.config\fP.
The configuration file consists of a number of one-line entries; one for each
simultaneous login that is allowed.
The number of simultaneous logins must, of course, be less than or equal to
the number of SLIP interfaces available.
Each entry contains an internet address (specified by hostname or dot notation
format) for the server side of a SLIP line.
The entries may all be the same or unique depending on how you prefer to
administer your network.
The configuration file may also contain comments which are lines starting with
a "#".
Here is an example:
.PP
.nf
.CW
# Lines that start with "#" are ignored.
# This example allows 4 simultaneous SLIP logins all using the same server
# side IP address.
#
# <address of server side of point to point link>
aslan.acme.com
aslan.acme.com
aslan.acme.com
aslan.acme.com
.fi
.fP
.PP
In the case where all of the server side addresses are the same, command line
arguments may be used instead of a configuration file. The first argument
is the number of simultaneous logins to allow, and the second argument is
the address of the server side of the point-point link.
.PP
The \fBdslipuser\fP program displays the contents of the user file which
identifies who is logged in and what internet addresses they are using.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
ifconfig(1M), slattach(1M), slhangupd(1M), slip(7)
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/slip.hosts
/etc/slip.user
/etc/slip.config
/var/slip/slip.log
.fi
.SH ORIGINAL AUTHOR
.nf
Greg Whitehead 10-02-87
Computing Services
University of California, Davis
.fi
