.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
.\" that both the copyright notice appear in all copies and that both
.\" the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
.\" supporting documentation, and that the name of Intel Corporation
.\" not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
.\" of the software without specific, written prior permission.
.\"
.\" COMPANY AND/OR INTEL DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL COMPANY NOR INTEL BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
.\" RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION,
.\" ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH slattach 1M "TCP/IP"
.SH NAME
slattach, sldetach \- assigns and removes serial lines as a SLIP interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/slattach\fP [\fB-i\fP] node_name interface_name
\fB/usr/sbin/slattach -d\fP [\fB-i\fP] device_name interface_name [ baudrate ]
\fB/usr/sbin/slattach -\fP interface_name [ process_id ]

\fB/usr/sbin/sldetach\fP interface_name
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBSlattach\fP is used to assign a serial line as a network interface
using the \fISLIP\fP (Serial Link Internet Protocol) driver.
.PP
When invoked with \fInode_name\fP and \fIinterface_name\fP, \fBslattach\fP
uses BNU (Basic Networking Utilities) to establish an outgoing serial line
connection.
Refer to the \fIAdvanced System Administration Guide\fP for complete
information on set up and administration of BNU.
.PP
The \fB-i\fP option causes \fBslattach\fP to ignore SIGHUP.
By default \fBslattach\fP exits gracefully whenever a SIGHUP is caught and
processed by the \fIslhangupd\fP daemon.
.PP
The \fB-d\fP option causes \fBslattach\fP to directly open the specified
\fIdevice_name\fP without the use of BNU.
In this case the \fIbaudrate\fP parameter is used to set the speed of the
connection.
The default baudrate is 9600.
.PP
The \fB-\fP option causes stdin to be used as the device to be attached to the
\fISLIP\fP driver.
This option is used to convert a remote login line to a SLIP connection.
In this case, SIGHUP can not be ignored.
The optional argument \fIprocess_id\fP, if specified, causes \fBslattach\fP to
send a SIGHUP to the specified process ID when it receives the SIGHUP signal.
.PP
\fBSldetach\fP is used to decommission a serial line that was used for a SLIP
connection.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
slattach venus sl0
slattach -d -i /dev/tty00 sl0 19200

sldetach sl0
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
slhangupd(1M), slip(1), asy(7), ip(7), slip(7)
\fIAdvanced System Administration Guide\fP.
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Sudji Husodo
