.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
.\" that both the copyright notice appear in all copies and that both
.\" the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
.\" supporting documentation, and that the name of Intel Corporation
.\" not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
.\" of the software without specific, written prior permission.
.\"
.\" COMPANY AND/OR INTEL DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL COMPANY NOR INTEL BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
.\" RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION,
.\" ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH slhangupd 1M "TCP/IP"
.SH NAME
slhangupd \- slip hangup daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
/usr/sbin/slhangupd
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Due to the interworkings of the TCP/IP protocol stack, hangup signals
from the tty may not reach \fIslattach\fP to notify it that the SLIP
connection has been lost.
\fBSlhangupd\fP is a daemon that receives messages from the \fISLIP\fP driver
(in the form of process IDs) and sends a SIGHUP signal to the specified
process ID on behave of the tty.
.PP
When the \fISLIP\fP driver is first opened, it stores the process ID of
the program that did the open.
Normally, this will be \fIslattach\fP.
Whenever \fISLIP\fP receives a M_HANGUP message from the STREAMS driver under
it (usually a tty driver), it sends the process ID of the program that did the
initial open to \fBslhangupd\fP.
When \fBslhangupd\fP receives the message, it sends a SIGHUP to the process ID
specified in the message.
.SH SEE ALSO
slattach(1M), asy(7), slip(7)
.SH FILES
/dev/slip
.SH AUTHOR
Sudji Husodo
